Most models are black boxes such that the internal logic of the function is hidden from the end user. To encourage transparency, we've made it very easy to add interpretation to your model by  simply setting the interpretation keyword in the Interface class to default. This allows your users to understand what parts of the input are responsible for the output. Take a look at the simple interface below which shows an image classifier that also includes interpretation:
In addition to default, Gradio also includes Shapley-based interpretation, which provides more accurate interpretations, albeit usually with a slower runtime. To use this, simply set the interpretation parameter to "shap" (note: also make sure the python package shap is installed). Optionally, you can modify the num_shap parameter, which controls the tradeoff between accuracy and runtime (increasing this value generally increases accuracy). Here is an example:
This will work for any function, even if internally, the model is a complex neural network or some other black box. If you use Gradio's default or shap interpretation, the output component must be a Label. All common input components are supported. Here is an example with text input.
So what is happening under the hood? With these interpretation methods, Gradio runs the prediction multiple times with modified versions of the input. Based on the results, you'll see that the interface automatically highlights the parts of the text (or image, etc.) that contributed increased the likelihood of the class as red. The intensity of color corresponds to the importance of that part of the input. The parts that decrease the class confidence are highlighted blue.
You can also write your own interpretation function. The demo below adds custom interpretation to the previous demo. This function will take the same inputs as the main wrapped function. The output of this interpretation function will be used to highlight the input of each input component - therefore the function must return a list where the number of elements corresponds to the number of input components. To see the format for interpretation for each input component, check the Docs.
Learn more about Interpretation in the docs. 